#Installation1. Burn the <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/jasperproject/files/jasper-disk-image.tar.gz/download">Jasper image</a> to a SD card (e.g. Win32 Disk Imager) and install to your raspberry-pi unit and power up2. SSH into your raspberry-pi using your favorite SSH terminal. (e.g. MobaXterm)  The default username/password is pi/raspberry.3. Expand the file system so the entire SD card is available for use.  This will require you to reboot afterwards.    <pre>    sudo raspi-config    </pre>4. **OPTIONAL:** Install and use wicd to use a wifi dongle instead of the Ethernet port. I'm including instructions for what you do when wicd is not recognizing your wifi networks.  If you see your wifi networks, you can skip to step 5.
    <pre>
    sudo apt-get install wicd-curses -y
    sudo wicd-curses
    </pre>

    NOTE: Commands in wicd-curses are **case sensitive**, so make sure you are using UPPERCASE letters for accessing menus.

    1. **P** for Preferences
    2. Make sure the "Wireless Interface" section is populated with *wlan0*
    3. Make "Always show wired interface" and "Always switch to wired connection when available" are both **checked**.
    3. Press **F10** to save
    4. Press **R** to refresh
    5. Find your SSID, and use the up/down arrow keys to navigate to the entry
    6. Press the right arrow key to configure.
    7. Go to the "key" section and add your wifi password
    8. Check the box for "Automatically connect to this network" and press **F10**
    8. Press **C** to connect.  

    At this point, your terminal will hang up.  Don't worry.  This is because your wifi adapter connected and your ethernet was disconnected.  Remove the ethernet cable and cycle the power on the raspberry pi.  You should now be able to SSH into the wifi adapter.  Note, the IP address for the wifi will probably be different from the wired adapter.  Use your wifi router to find this address. If you plug the ethernet cable back in, then the raspberry pi will use that as the preferred network adapter.

5. Install Jasper by using git to clone from the source repository.  Disable Jasper from starting automatically upon boot.
    <pre>    git clone https://github.com/FutureTense/jasper-client jasper -b futuretense    ~/jasper/setup/disable-jasper-boot.sh
    </pre>6. Update raspberry-pi (will automatically reboot)    <pre>    ~/jasper/setup/update-raspberrypi.sh    </pre>7. Update the firmware of the raspberry-pi (which is also stored on the SD card)    <pre>    ~/jasper/setup/firmware.sh    sudo reboot    </pre>8. **OPTIONAL:** If you wish to use USB speakers, this script will allow the USB speakers to be used by the raspberry-pi.    <pre>    ~/jasper/setup/usb-audio.sh    sudo reboot    </pre>9.  Test your microphone and speakers.  This script will record 3 seconds of audio, then play it back for you.    <pre>    ~/jasper/setup/audiotest.sh    </pre>10.  Install the prerequisite modules required for Jasper.    <pre>    ~/jasper/setup/jasper-prereq.sh    </pre>Congratulations!  Jasper is now installed.  All that is left is to do is setup the configuration file.  NOTE:  You do not need to populate every value in the configuration file.  It all depends on which modules you want to install.#<a id="Configuration"></a>ConfigurationThe file **~/jasper/jasper.confg** contains information about your system divided into sections.  The sections and their contents are discussed below.##ProfileThis section contains basic information about the owner of the Jasper device.   ####User's first namefirst\_name=Bob####User's last namelast_\name=Smith####This value is used for weather requests.  Location should be a 5-digit US zipcode (e.g., 08544). If you are outside the US, insert the name of your nearest big town/city.location='90210'####Please enter a timezone from the list located in the TZ* column at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List\_of\_tz\_database\_time\_zones, or none at all. timezone=US/Eastern####Your cell phone number, for SMS notifications.  You may choose to leave this blank.phone\_number='2125551212'####If you have a US phone number, you can enter one of the following: 'AT&T', 'Verizon', 'T-Mobile' (without the quotes). If your carrier isn't listed or you have an international number, go to http://www.emailtextmessages.com and enter the email suffix for your carrier (e.g., for Virgin Mobile, enter 'vmobl.com'; for T-Mobile Germany, enter 't-d1-sms.de').carrier=tmomail.net####Jasper uses your Gmail to send notifications. Alternatively, you can skip this step (or just fill in the email address if you want to receive email notifications) and setup a <a href="http://jasperproject.github.io/documentation/software/#mailgun">Mailgun account</a>.gmail\_address=foobar@gmail.com####Jasper requires your password to send notifications.  This password never leaves the Jasper device.  You may leave this blank if you want to use Mailgun instead. gmail\_password=somepass####If this value is true, Jasper will send notifications via email, otherwise it will try and send notifications via SMS.prefers_email=false ##Mailgunusername=password =##FacebookFollow the instructions <a href = "http://jasperproject.github.io/documentation/software/#facebook-tokens">here</a> to create a facebook token.  Add it to the *facebook* section of **jasper.conf** and name the value *token*##SpotifyAt the moment, the Spotify configuration is handled in a separate file.  Please see this <a href="http://jasperproject.github.io/documentation/software/#spotify-integration">guide</a> for further information.#Running JasperNow that you have populated **jasper.conf** you are ready to test Jasper.  When you installed Jasper, you ran a script which disabled the startup script from executing when booting.  To start Jasper, manually start this script by running:<pre>    ~/jasper/boot/boot.sh</pre>This will start Jasper and you can watch the output in the console.  If you want to stop Jasper, this command will do just that:<pre>    pkill python</pre>After the boot.sh script has been run at least once, you can start Jasper by running:<pre>    cd ~/jasper/client    python main.py</pre>Once you are satisfied and you are ready for Jasper to start every time the unit boots, issue the following command:    <pre>    ~/jasper/setup/enable-jasper-boot.sh    </pre>